adding a get started with security page #6668 (#7128)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _getting-started/security.md

---
layout: default
title: Getting started with OpenSearch security
nav_order: 60
---

# Getting started with OpenSearch security

> The most straight forward way to get started with security in OpenSearch is using the demo configuration. Some parts of this configuration should never be used in production, for example demo certificates and default passwords. These parts of demo configuration should be updated with your custom details prior to moving to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The demo configuration is the most straightforward way to get started with security in OpenSearch. Certain aspects of this configuration, such as demo certificates and default passwords, should never be used in production. These parts of the demo configuration should be updated with your custom information before proceeding to production.
```

# OpenSearch demo configuration

> OpenSearch comes bundled with a number of useful scripts, one of which is `install_demo_configuration.sh` (or `install_demo_configuration.bat` for Windows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch comes bundled with a number of useful scripts, one of which is the `install_demo_configuration.sh` (or `install_demo_configuration.bat` for Windows).
```

> This script is usually located in `plugins/opensearch-security/tools` and performs the following actions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script is located in `plugins/opensearch-security/tools` and performs the following actions:
```

- creates demo certificates for TLS encryption on transport and REST layer.
- configures demo users, roles, role mappings.
- configures Security plugin to use internal database for authentication and authorization.
- updates `opensearch.yml` file with basic configuration needed to get the cluster started.

> Prior to running the `install_demo_configuration.sh` script you must create environment variable named `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` set to strong password, as this will be used as password for admin user to authenticate with OpenSearch. Once this is set, you can execute `install_demo_configuration.sh` and follow the terminal prompt to enter necessary details.

Author: thanks @DarshitChanpura thats now added

After the script is executed, you can start OpenSearch and test out the configuration by running the following command:

> `curl -k -XGET -uadmin:<password> https://<opensearch-ip>:9200`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`curl -k -XGET -u admin:<password> https://<opensearch-ip>:9200`
```

    "build_snapshot" : false,
    "lucene_version" : "9.10.0",
    "minimum_wire_compatibility_version" : "7.10.0",
    "minimum_index_compatibility_version" : "7.0.0"
  },
  "tagline" : "The OpenSearch Project: https://opensearch.org/"
}
```

# OpenSearch Dashboards

In order to quickly get started with OpenSearch Dashboards, you can add the following configuration to `opensearch_dashboards.yml`:
```
opensearch.hosts: [https://localhost:9200]
opensearch.ssl.verificationMode: none
opensearch.username: kibanaserver
opensearch.password: kibanaserver
opensearch.requestHeadersWhitelist: [authorization, securitytenant]

opensearch_security.multitenancy.enabled: true
opensearch_security.multitenancy.tenants.preferred: [Private, Global]
opensearch_security.readonly_mode.roles: [kibana_read_only]
# Use this setting if you are running opensearch-dashboards without https
opensearch_security.cookie.secure: false
```
You can start the binary or service, depending on which method was used to install OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards.
Once OpenSearch Dashboards is started, you should see following two lines in the logs:
```
[info][listening] Server running at http://localhost:5601

> [info][server][OpenSearchDashboards][http] http server running at http://localhost:5601

Author: thanks @DarshitChanpura thats now added

```

You can now access the OpenSearch Dashboards using http://localhost:5601 in your browser. Using username `admin` and password that was configured in `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` environment variable.

# Adding users

> There are three ways to add users, roles, and other security configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three ways to add users, roles, and other security related configurations:
```

  - updating appropriate configuration files (`internal_users.yml` file for adding/updating/removing users) 
  - using API
  - using OpenSearch Dashboards UI

> Security configuration files are usually located in `config/opensearch-security` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security configuration files are located in `config/opensearch-security` directory.
```

{: .note}

> You can add OpenSearch Dashboards user by updating `internal_users.yml` file as follows: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add a OpenSearch Dashboards user by updating the `internal_users.yml` file as follows: 
```

```
test-user:
  hash: "$2y$12$CkxFoTAJKsZaWv/m8VoZ6ePG3DBeBTAvoo4xA2P21VCS9w2RYumsG"
  backend_roles:
  - "test-backend-role"
  - "kibanauser"
  description: "test user user"
```

> The `hash` string is generated using `hash.sh` script located in `plugins/opensearch-security/tools/` directory. In this case password of `secretpassword` was used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `hash` string is generated using `hash.sh` script located in `plugins/opensearch-security/tools/` directory. In this case the hash of the string `secretpassword` was used.
```

> Note the use of build in backend role `kibanauser` which is going to give user permissions needed to navigate OpenSearch Dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note the use of built-in backend role `kibanauser` which is going to give user permissions needed to navigate OpenSearch Dashboards.
```

# Creating role

> The structure of the role in `roles.yml` file is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structure of a role in `roles.yml` file is as follows:
```

```
<rolename>:
  cluster_permissions:
    - <cluster permission>
  index_permissions:
    - index_patterns:
      - <index pattern>
      allowed_actions:
        - <index permissions>
```

> Using this structure you can configure a new role to give access to specific indexes, see the following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this structure you can configure a new role to give access to specific indexes. For example, see the following configuration:
```

```
human_resources:
  index_permissions:
    - index_patterns:
      - "humanresources"
      allowed_actions:
        - "READ"
```

> Note that the cluster permissions are not listed in this example, as these are provided by built in role `kibana_user` which is already mapped using `kibanauser` backend role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the cluster permissions are not listed in this example, as these are provided by built-in role `kibana_user` which is already mapped using `kibanauser` backend role.
```

# Mapping users to roles

> When user logs in to OpenSearch, they need to be mapped to appropriate role in order to obtain the correct permissions. This mapping is done via `roles_mapping.yml` file, with the following structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user logs in to OpenSearch, they need to be mapped to appropriate role in order to obtain the correct permissions. This mapping is done via `roles_mapping.yml` file, with the following structure:
```

```
<role_name>:
  users:
    - <username>
    - ...
  backend_roles:
    - <rolename>
```

In order to map the newly created user `test-user` to the role `human_resources`, you can use the following configuration in `roles_mapping.yml` file:
```
human_resources:
  backend_roles:
    - test-backend-role
```

> If you examine the already existing roles_mappings.yml file, you can see the backend role of `kibanauser` is already being mapped to `kibana_user` role, see the following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you examine the already existing `roles_mappings.yml` file, you can see the backend role `kibanauser` has been mapped to `kibana_user` role. You can search for the following configuration in the file:
```

```
kibana_user:
  reserved: false
  backend_roles:
  - "kibanauser"
  description: "Maps kibanauser to kibana_user"
```

# Uploading the configuration to security index

> The final step in configuring users, roles and any other security configuration is uploading it to OpenSearch security index. Only updating the files, without uploading them, will not have any impact on the configuration that is running in OpenSearch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final step in configuring users, roles and any other security configuration is uploading it to OpenSearch security index. Only updating the files, without uploading them, will not change any configuration inside the already running OpenSearch cluster. 
```

To upload configuration, following command can be used with admin certificate that was generated during `install_demo_configuration.sh` execution:

> `plugins/opensearch-security/tools/securityadmin.sh -cd "config/opensearch-security" -icl -key "../kirk-key.pem" -cert "../kirk.pem" -cacert "../root-ca.pem" -nhnv`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`./plugins/opensearch-security/tools/securityadmin.sh -cd "config/opensearch-security" -icl -key "../kirk-key.pem" -cert "../kirk.pem" -cacert "../root-ca.pem" -nhnv`
```

---
layout: default
title: Getting started with OpenSearch security
nav_order: 60
---

# Getting started with OpenSearch security

> The demo configuration is the most straightforward way to get started with security in OpenSearch. OpenSearch comes bundled with a number of useful scripts, including `install_demo_configuration.sh` (or `install_demo_configuration.bat` for Windows).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The demo configuration is the most straightforward way to get started with OpenSearch security. OpenSearch comes bundled with a number of useful scripts, including `install_demo_configuration.sh` (or `install_demo_configuration.bat` for Windows).
```

This script is located in `plugins/opensearch-security/tools` and performs the following actions:

- Creates demo certificates for TLS encryption on both the transport and REST layers.

> - Configures demo users, roles, role mappings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Configures demo users, roles, and role mappings.
```

> - Configures the Security plugin to use internal database for authentication and authorization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Configures the Security plugin to use an internal database for authentication and authorization.
```

> - Updates the `opensearch.yml` file with basic configuration needed to get the cluster started.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Updates the `opensearch.yml` file with the basic configuration needed to start the cluster.
```

> You can find complete details regarding demo configuration and how to get up and running quickly at [Setting up a demo configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/demo-configuration/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can find more information about the demo configuration and how to quickly get started at [Setting up a demo configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/demo-configuration/).
```

{: .note}

> Certain aspects of this configuration, such as demo certificates and default passwords, should never be used in production. These parts of the demo configuration should be updated with your custom information before proceeding to production.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Certain aspects of this configuration, such as demo certificates and default passwords, should never be used in production. These parts of the demo configuration should be replaced with your custom information before proceeding to production.
```

{: .warning}

## Setting up the demo configuration

> Prior to running the `install_demo_configuration.sh` script you must create environment variable named `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` set to a strong password. This will be used as the password for the admin user to authenticate with OpenSearch. Use the online tool [_Zxcvbn_](https://lowe.github.io/tryzxcvbn/) to test the strength of any password. After this is set, you can execute `install_demo_configuration.sh` and follow the terminal prompt to enter necessary details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Prior to running the `install_demo_configuration.sh` script, you must create an environment variable named `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` with a strong password. This will be used as the password for the admin user to authenticate with OpenSearch. Use the online tool [_Zxcvbn_](https://lowe.github.io/tryzxcvbn/) to test the strength of any password. After this, you can execute `install_demo_configuration.sh` and follow the terminal prompt to enter necessary details.
```

> Prior to running the `install_demo_configuration.sh` script you must create environment variable named `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` set to a strong password. This will be used as the password for the admin user to authenticate with OpenSearch. Use the online tool [_Zxcvbn_](https://lowe.github.io/tryzxcvbn/) to test the strength of any password. After this is set, you can execute `install_demo_configuration.sh` and follow the terminal prompt to enter necessary details.

Reviewer 3: Second sentence: "The admin user will use this password for OpenSearch authentication"?

> After the script is executed, you can start OpenSearch and test out the configuration by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the script is executed, you can start OpenSearch and test the configuration by running the following command:
```

```
curl -k -XGET -u admin:<password> https://<opensearch-ip>:9200
```
{% include copy.html %}

> You should see similar output to the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You should see output similar to the following:
```

    "build_hash" : "7ec678d1b7c87d6e779fdef94e33623e1f1e2647",
    "build_date" : "2024-03-26T00:04:51.025238748Z",
    "build_snapshot" : false,
    "lucene_version" : "9.10.0",
    "minimum_wire_compatibility_version" : "7.10.0",
    "minimum_index_compatibility_version" : "7.0.0"
  },
  "tagline" : "The OpenSearch Project: https://opensearch.org/"
}
```

## Setting up OpenSearch Dashboards

In order to quickly get started with OpenSearch Dashboards, you can add the following configuration to `opensearch_dashboards.yml`:

```
opensearch.hosts: [https://localhost:9200]
opensearch.ssl.verificationMode: none
opensearch.username: kibanaserver
opensearch.password: kibanaserver
opensearch.requestHeadersWhitelist: [authorization, securitytenant]

opensearch_security.multitenancy.enabled: true
opensearch_security.multitenancy.tenants.preferred: [Private, Global]
opensearch_security.readonly_mode.roles: [kibana_read_only]
# Use this setting if you are running opensearch-dashboards without https
opensearch_security.cookie.secure: false
```
{% include copy.html %}

You can start the binary or service, depending on which method was used to install OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards.

> When using binary, you need to supply `--no-base-path` to `yarn start` command to set a URL without a base-path. If this is not set, a random 3-letter base-path will be added.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When using binary, you need to supply `--no-base-path` to `yarn start` command to set a URL without a base path. If this is not set, a random three-letter base path will be added.
```

> When using binary, you need to supply `--no-base-path` to `yarn start` command to set a URL without a base-path. If this is not set, a random 3-letter base-path will be added.

Reviewer 3: Above we use "the binary". Should "the" precede "binary" here? Should there also be an article preceding `--no-base-path`?

{: .note}

> After OpenSearch Dashboards is started, you should see following two lines in the logs:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After starting OpenSearch Dashboards, you should see the following two lines in the logs:
```

> After OpenSearch Dashboards is started, you should see following two lines in the logs:

Reviewer 3: "lines in the logs" => "log lines?

```
[info][listening] Server running at http://localhost:5601
[info][server][OpenSearchDashboards][http] http server running at http://localhost:5601
```
{% include copy.html %}

> You can now access the OpenSearch Dashboards using http://localhost:5601 in your browser. Use the username `admin` and the password that was configured in `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` environment variable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can now access OpenSearch Dashboards using http://localhost:5601 in your browser. Use the username `admin` and the password that was configured in the `OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` environment variable.
```

# Adding users

> There are three ways to add users, roles, and other security related configurations:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are three ways to add users, roles, and other security-related configurations:
```

>   - Updating appropriate configuration files (`internal_users.yml` file for adding/updating/removing users) 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Updating appropriate configuration files (`internal_users.yml` for adding/updating/removing users) 
```

  - Using the API
  - Using the OpenSearch Dashboards UI

> Security configuration files are located in `config/opensearch-security` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Security configuration files are located in the `config/opensearch-security` directory.
```

{: .note}

You can add an OpenSearch Dashboards user by updating the `internal_users.yml` file with the following settings:

```
test-user:
  hash: "$2y$12$CkxFoTAJKsZaWv/m8VoZ6ePG3DBeBTAvoo4xA2P21VCS9w2RYumsG"
  backend_roles:
  - "test-backend-role"
  - "kibanauser"
  description: "test user user"
```
{% include copy.html %}

> The `hash` string is generated using `hash.sh` script located in `plugins/opensearch-security/tools/` directory. In this case the hash of the string `secretpassword` was used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `hash` string is generated using the `hash.sh` script located in the `plugins/opensearch-security/tools/` directory. In this case, the hash of the string `secretpassword` was used.
```

> Note the use of built-in backend role `kibanauser` which is going to give user permissions needed to navigate OpenSearch Dashboards.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note the use of the built-in backend role `kibanauser`, which provides the user permissions needed to navigate OpenSearch Dashboards.
```

## Creating roles

> Roles inside of `roles.yml` use the following structure:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Roles contained in `roles.yml` use the following structure:
```

```
<rolename>:
  cluster_permissions:
    - <cluster permission>
  index_permissions:
    - index_patterns:
      - <index pattern>
      allowed_actions:
        - <index permissions>
```
{% include copy.html %}

> Using this structure you can configure a new role to give access to specific indexes, such as the following example configuration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using this structure, you can configure a new role to provide access to specific indexes, such as the role configured in the following example:
```

```
human_resources:
  index_permissions:
    - index_patterns:
      - "humanresources"
      allowed_actions:
        - "READ"
```
{% include copy.html %}

> Note that the cluster permissions are not listed in this example, as these are provided by built-in role `kibana_user` which is already mapped using the `kibanauser` backend role.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that the cluster permissions are not listed in this example because these are provided by the built-in role `kibana_user`, which is already mapped using the `kibanauser` backend role.
```

## Mapping users to roles

> When a user logs into OpenSearch, they need to be mapped to the appropriate role in order to obtain the correct permissions. This mapping is done using the `roles_mapping.yml` file with the following structure:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a user logs in to OpenSearch, they need to be mapped to the appropriate role in order to obtain the correct permissions. This mapping is performed using the `roles_mapping.yml` file with the following structure:
```

```
<role_name>:
  users:
    - <username>
    - ...
  backend_roles:
    - <rolename>
```
{% include copy.html %}

> In order to map the newly created user `test-user` to the role `human_resources`, you can use the following configuration in `roles_mapping.yml` file:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to map the newly created user `test-user` to the role `human_resources`, you can use the following configuration in the `roles_mapping.yml` file:
```

```
human_resources:
  backend_roles:
    - test-backend-role
```
{% include copy.html %}

> For an additional example, the `roles_mappings.yml` file includes the following backend role `kibanauser` has been mapped to `kibana_user` role:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As an additional example, the `roles_mappings.yml` file includes the backend role `kibanauser` that has been mapped to the `kibana_user` role:
```

```
kibana_user:
  reserved: false
  backend_roles:
  - "kibanauser"
  description: "Maps kibanauser to kibana_user"
```
{% include copy.html %}

> ## Uploading the configuration to security index

Reviewer 3: Either "a" or "the" should precede "security index".

> ## Uploading the configuration to security index

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Uploading the configuration to a security index
```

> The final step in configuring users, roles and any other security configuration is uploading it to OpenSearch security index. Only updating the files, without uploading them, will not change any configuration inside the already running OpenSearch cluster. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The final step in configuring a user, role, or any other security configuration is uploading it to OpenSearch security index. Only updating the files, without uploading them, will not change the configuration of an already running OpenSearch cluster. 
```

> The final step in configuring users, roles and any other security configuration is uploading it to OpenSearch security index. Only updating the files, without uploading them, will not change any configuration inside the already running OpenSearch cluster. 

Reviewer 3: Either "a" or "the" should precede "OpenSearch security index".

> To upload configuration, the following command can be used with admin certificate that was generated during `install_demo_configuration.sh` execution:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To upload a configuration, the following command can be used with the admin certificate that was generated during `install_demo_configuration.sh` execution:
```
